In this report, I will be completing a data wrangling and analysis on the English Premier League (EPL). The Premier League is the top division of football within England, it was initiated in 1992 and the league is competed by 20 teams each season.

A heavy part of this report is covered in section 3 where I will be completing a thorough Data Wrangling. Within this section I will gather, assess and clean data from an open-source JSON dataset: English Premier League in-game match data. I selected this dataset because it includes in-game player statistics from all matches as well as team statistics, this is something which I was unable to find in any other EPL dataset. The data covers 4 complete years from 2014-2018 and has been collected entirely from whoscored.com.

Additionally, I will be gathering a dataset of all PFA Players' Player of the Year award winners scraped from Wikipedia. The PFA Players' Player of the Year award is voted by all Premier League players for the best individual during a season. The award is extremely prestigious and highly sought after, which makes for an interesting study. I decided to collect this data to investigate whether award winners share common attributes using K-Means Clustering. Once all data is assessed and cleaned, it will be stored in a relational database with consistent Primary and Foreign Keys to facilitate future table joins. A relational database is a logical way to store this data as there are multiple dataframes collected which share common keys.

The later Data Analysis will be split into 2. In section 4.1 I will complete an Exploratory Analysis where I will utilise visualisations to gain a greater understanding of the data. I will look into which teams players have won the PFA Player of the Year award most times; I will explore the correlation between goals scored and ball possession and finally I will look into goals scored home and away. In section 4.2 of the Data Analysis I will utilise K-Means Clustering to create a model which groups Premier League players by attributes. Ultimately, I would like to understand whether PFA Player of the Year winners share attributes and a common cluster. If the award winners share a common cluster, perhaps the model can be used to help predict future winners of the award.

Finally, a well documented conclusion will form a summary of the main findings of this report.
